# *Bushidō*

I have embarked on a path that has already proven to be more difficult and more humbling than I anticipated. Recently, I quit a safe job working as an administrator at a small private university in Rhode Island and moved to a foreign country with my family. I have chosen to use my time here to try and learn new skills in information technology and cybersecurity in hopes of turning the page on my previous career and launching a new one. It is my intention with this blog to take any readers along with me as trudge through the processes of reskilling and searching for new job opportunities.      

People rightfully want to know, why cybersecurity? A quick Google or YouTube search will turn up loads of information about the current state of the industry and it's expected future. Jump down that rabbit hole if you're interested. For me personally, it's about developing a passion, finding a new way to positively impact the world, and continuing to learn and find ways to become better. It's much less about the promises of six figure salaries made by modern day snake oil salesmen. Of course a fat paycheck would be nice, but I know I'm not anywhere near that point in the game.  

My path into this IT and cybersecurity learning journey has been circuitous. In high school, I was not interested in learning or even considering moving on to college. Rebellious would be a kind way to describe me at that time. In all honesty, I was an angry and lost child. Many years later, I did complete a four-year degree in an unrelated field. Upon completion of that degree, I siezed an opportunity to travel to the Far East where I say my real education began. For the first time I stepped outside of my comfort zone and began to expand the boundaries of it. My time overseas eventually ended and I took a job in international education at that university in Rhode Island. There I had many wonderful opportunities to work with incredible people and do and see things that I would have never experienced otherwise. When the COVID-19 pandemic drastically changed the landscape of international education many of the opportunities to be impactful in the lives of students and faculty disipated. I became jaded and knew it was time to move on to something else.  

I have always been skeptical of technology and the promises of convenience that come along with its development. I'm a bit old school in that I still like to pay for things in cash and I am not available 24 hours a day even though my mobile phone is within an arm's reach away. However, it is very intriguing to me how many people are constantly integrating new apps and technologies into their daily lives, almost unquestioning of what they are giving up in return. Awareness around cyber hygiene is getting better but I believe there is still much to accomplish in terms of educating the general user. Defending and educating the average user is where I believe my passion currently lies within the cybersecurity field. In particular, active defense is an area which I plan to explore more. I won't know this for sure until I gain a lot more experience but, I look forward to eventually delving deeper into threat intelligence, intrusion detection, incident response, honeypots, and other aspects of active defense.  

#### *"Since making up my mind up to study in earnest, I have taken as my teacher everything in the universe, as well as the examples set by my predecessors. I am still in the process of learning." - Miyamoto Musashi (1584-1645)*   


So far in this journey, I have completed the Google Cybersecurity professional certificate and several smaller, online training programs. I am becoming more active on several cybersecurity related Discord servers. I attended the local BSides conference and have gone to two locally hosted 2600 meetups where I have met several seasoned experts of their respective fields that have been, at face value, supportive of my desire to enter into cybersecurity. It has also been incredibly humbling as I am often times older than these experts who already have a decade or more of experience doing something they love. It is intimidating and has on several occassions left me doubting myself and questioning whether or not I have made the right decision. However, I also like to believe that I have the ability to do difficult things, even when I don't want to. If you're a fan of the Huberman Podcast, you may have heard Professor Huberman discuss emerging data around a brain area called the anterior midcingulate cortex, which grows when people engage in activities that they don't want to do or overcome challenges, and that the size of this anterior midcingulate cortex may be related to longevity. I try to remember this when I am doubting myself. I know that I can overcome the gaps in knowledge and become a competent cybersecurity professional. It will take grit and there will be ups and downs along the way. I remain aware of this and remind myself that I am not going to give up and that I will accomplish this goal.    

I have set a date to take the Comptia Security+ exam. I will write more about that exam and my preparation for it in the next post.   

_Learn from everything. Take what you want. Do good things._   

##### _JMF_
